.planning/STATE.md, before:

# Project State

## Project Reference

See: .planning/PROJECT.md (updated 2026-02-14)

**Core value:** AI 에이전트가 안전하고 자율적으로 온체인 거래를 수행할 수 있어야 한다 -- 동시에 에이전트 주인(사람)이 자금 통제권을 유지하면서.
**Current focus:** Phase 109 - DB 마이그레이션 + 환경 모델 SSoT

## Current Position

Phase: 109 of 114 (DB 마이그레이션 + 환경 모델 SSoT) -- COMPLETE
Plan: 2 of 2 in current phase
Status: Phase Complete
Last activity: 2026-02-14 -- 109-02 DB Migration v6a/v6b/v8 완료

Progress: [██░░░░░░░░] 15% (2/13 plans)

## Performance Metrics

**Cumulative:** 25 milestones, 108 phases, 233 plans, 646 reqs, 1,498 tests, 62,296 LOC

| Phase | Plan | Duration | Tasks | Files |
|-------|------|----------|-------|-------|
| 109 | 01 | 3min | 2 | 3 |
| 109 | 02 | 45min | 2 | 32 |

## Accumulated Context

### Decisions

Full log in PROJECT.md.
Recent decisions affecting current work:

- v1.4.5: EnvironmentType 2값 하드코딩 (testnet/mainnet) -- YAGNI 원칙
- v1.4.5: DB 마이그레이션 2단계 분리 (v6a ADD COLUMN, v6b 12-step 재생성)
- v1.4.5: resolveNetwork() 순수 함수 (클래스 아님)
- v1.4.5: ALLOWED_NETWORKS permissive default (미설정 시 전체 허용)
- v1.4.5: policies.network DB 컬럼 (not rules JSON)
- 109-01: ENVIRONMENT_TYPES는 chain.ts에 기존 SSoT와 동일 위치에 배치 (ENV-02)
- 109-01: ENVIRONMENT_DEFAULT_NETWORK은 getDefaultNetwork() 함수로 간접 검증
- 109-02: wallet.network -> wallet.defaultNetwork! 최소 변환 (비즈니스 로직은 Phase 110/111)
- 109-02: default_network nullable (향후 멀티체인 월렛 미지정 지원 대비)
- 109-02: v6a는 일반 ALTER, v6b/v8은 managesOwnTransaction: true (12-step recreation)

### Blockers/Concerns

- Pre-existing flaky lifecycle.test.ts -- not blocking
- Pre-existing 3 CLI E2E failures (E-07~09) -- daemon-harness adapter: param
- v1.4.6 마이그레이션 버전 순서 검증 완료: v6a(6) -> v6b(7) -> v8(8), LATEST_SCHEMA_VERSION=8

## Session Continuity

Last session: 2026-02-14
Stopped at: Completed 109-02-PLAN.md (DB Migration v6a/v6b/v8 + Drizzle Schema)
Resume file: None

Commit message:

docs(phase-109): complete phase execution

.planning/STATE.md, after:

# Project State

## Project Reference

See: .planning/PROJECT.md (updated 2026-02-14)

**Core value:** AI 에이전트가 안전하고 자율적으로 온체인 거래를 수행할 수 있어야 한다 -- 동시에 에이전트 주인(사람)이 자금 통제권을 유지하면서.
**Current focus:** Phase 110 - 스키마 전환 + 정책 엔진

## Current Position

Phase: 110 of 114 (스키마 전환 + 정책 엔진)
Plan: 0 of 2 in current phase
Status: Ready to plan
Last activity: 2026-02-14 -- Phase 109 완료 (verified: 8/8 must-haves)

Progress: [██░░░░░░░░] 15% (2/13 plans)

## Performance Metrics

**Cumulative:** 25 milestones, 108 phases, 233 plans, 646 reqs, 1,498 tests, 62,296 LOC

| Phase | Plan | Duration | Tasks | Files |
|-------|------|----------|-------|-------|
| 109 | 01 | 3min | 2 | 3 |
| 109 | 02 | 45min | 2 | 32 |

## Accumulated Context

### Decisions

Full log in PROJECT.md.
Recent decisions affecting current work:

- v1.4.5: EnvironmentType 2값 하드코딩 (testnet/mainnet) -- YAGNI 원칙
- v1.4.5: DB 마이그레이션 2단계 분리 (v6a ADD COLUMN, v6b 12-step 재생성)
- v1.4.5: resolveNetwork() 순수 함수 (클래스 아님)
- v1.4.5: ALLOWED_NETWORKS permissive default (미설정 시 전체 허용)
- v1.4.5: policies.network DB 컬럼 (not rules JSON)
- 109-01: ENVIRONMENT_TYPES는 chain.ts에 기존 SSoT와 동일 위치에 배치 (ENV-02)
- 109-01: ENVIRONMENT_DEFAULT_NETWORK은 getDefaultNetwork() 함수로 간접 검증
- 109-02: wallet.network -> wallet.defaultNetwork! 최소 변환 (비즈니스 로직은 Phase 110/111)
- 109-02: default_network nullable (향후 멀티체인 월렛 미지정 지원 대비)
- 109-02: v6a는 일반 ALTER, v6b/v8은 managesOwnTransaction: true (12-step recreation)

### Blockers/Concerns

- Pre-existing flaky lifecycle.test.ts -- not blocking
- Pre-existing 3 CLI E2E failures (E-07~09) -- daemon-harness adapter: param
- v1.4.6 마이그레이션 버전 순서 검증 완료: v6a(6) -> v6b(7) -> v8(8), LATEST_SCHEMA_VERSION=8

## Session Continuity

Last session: 2026-02-14
Stopped at: Phase 109 verified PASSED, ready to plan Phase 110
Resume file: None
